=========================
 Styling Functional Spec
=========================

Overview
========

Once data is uploaded to a geonode, users need a way to specify what
it should look like when served as WMS.  The styling interface will
give geonode users the ability to create, edit, and apply "Styled
Layer Descriptor" documents.

Initial effort will be to provide basic styling for raster and vector
data.  


User Stories
============

0. X from ERN has uploaded the data (as per fspec 1.3) and would like to
   have it display in a fashion better suited for communicating data
   about risk and hazard (relative to the default grey and black).


Goals/Non-Goals
===============

* styling for raster and vector
* support multiple style per layer

Basic Assumptions
=================

A vector SLD will be connected to a layer.

(A raster SLD could be copied from on layer to another?)


Feature Set
===========

Views
-----

* Styler(see below)

* Styles Dashboard
  An interface to available styles. Basic info and links to a managmenent and 
  information page for the style.

* Component to show styles available for a layer
 - in the composer

* Component as part of layer view/management allowing access to
  creating new styles and editing or deleting exising ones.  Should
  also allow download of styles.

* Component for copying a style.


Styler
~~~~~~

Styling "modal" interface for a layer accessed with a known layer.

* Choose a template 
 - existing style (similar hazard)

* UI for each basic type of layer
 - raster 
 - vector

* Focus on colors and transparency
 * Fill Color
 * Fill Transparency
 * Raster
   TBD (gradients? color ranges?) 
 * Line Style
  - stroke (color, thickness)
  - thickness
  - color

* Basic metadata entry
 - title
 - description
 - (eventually webbish annotations: ratings, etc)

.. note::

   Not sure if this is valid, but it seemed like it might be for
   raster data across periods of hazards.


Flow
----

0. User (trusted) clicks "create new style" on some selected layer
   somewhere in the UI.

0. Styler opens
  - is either the raster or vector ui depending on the layer

0. User styles and saves

.. todo::

   How does it open? 
   - a new panel than can be closed returning to the layer interface
   - ???






