# Metadata localization { #metadata_fields_localization }

Before GeoNode 5, the labels for the metadata editor were statically localized using `gettext()` and i18n `.po` files.

Since the jsonschema is much more dynamic in its behavior, allowing custom schema, other ways for localizing schema field labels were needed.

The proposed and implemented idea is to use a codelist, implemented as a thesaurus with a well-known identifier `labels_i18n`, where:

- `Thesaurus`
    - `identifier` = `labels_i18n` (fixed)
    - `date` = latest update
- `ThesaurusKeyword`
    - `about` = explicit `title` annotation, otherwise field name
    - `alt_label` = default label
- `ThesaurusKeywordLabel`
    - `label`: localized label
    - `language`: 2-letter language code

In order to avoid clashes, the schema field keys should be prefixed with the metadata handler id, for example `inspire_` or `myproject_`.

The implementation looks for translations in the thesaurus, and then uses `gettext` as fallback.

## Procedure

JSON schema provides the optional annotations `title` and `description` to document the purpose of a field.

The metadata editor shows the `title` as the field label and the `description`, if present, as a tooltip. If the `title` field does not exist in the schema, the editor usually shows the field name as the label.

The `SparseHandler` looks for the `title` and `description` annotations in the source subschema, and tries to localize them using the content as the key for the localization procedures.

As an example, if there is a property named `pname` with a `title` defined with the content `tstring`:

```json
"pname": {
    "title": "tstring",
    "description": "dstring",
    "type": "...",
    ...
}
```

the title localization procedure will look, in order, for:

- a `ThesaurusKeyword` with `about = "pname__ovr"` with matching language
- a `ThesaurusKeyword` with `about = "tstring"`
- a `getText` entry with key `tstring`

and the first returned result is used as a replacement for the `title` annotation. The `getText` value is used as a fallback anyway, since it returns the searched key if no entry is found.

For the description localization, similar steps are performed. The overriding key is slightly different; these are the steps:

- a `ThesaurusKeyword` with `about = "pname__descr__ovr"` with matching language
- a `ThesaurusKeyword` with `about = "dstring"`
- a `getText` entry with key `dstring`

## Overriding labels

The `__ovr` mechanism has been added as a way to locally customize standard field labels.

By not having `__ovr` items in the official label thesaurus, there will not be key conflicts when official thesauri content is changed, so an upgrade of GeoNode and its vocabularies will leave the local customization intact. Also note that the thesauri can be partially dumped, in order to only dump keys with a given prefix or suffix.

The `ThesaurusKeyword` key, `about`, is based on the property name, suffixed with `__ovr`, so that by simply inspecting the output jsonschema the admin is able to create the related overriding label.

Please note that the overrides are language-based, so you may override the label for a specified language, and leave the other language unmodified.
This also means that the default label for an overriding `ThesaurusKeyword` is never used.

## Plain localization

The standard localization foresees the use of a `ThesaurusKeyword` with `about = "tstring"`.
If the translation in the requested language is not found, the default label is used instead.

## Fallback

`getText` is used as a fallback for base fields for which localization was already provided. In this way the core GeoNode installation does not require the `labels_i18n` thesaurus, allowing for a smooth transition toward this new localization procedure.

## Implicit title and description

If the `title` annotation is not present in the subschema, the GeoNode metadata engine will search for a localized string having a key equal to the property name. If found, the `title` annotation is automatically added.

```json
"pname": {
    "type": "...",
    ...
}
```

Similar to the above procedure, these keys are searched for:

- a `ThesaurusKeyword` with `about = "pname__ovr"` with matching language
- a `ThesaurusKeyword` with `about = "pname"`

If any of these two values is found, the `title` annotation is automatically added with the found content.

In the same way, if the `description` annotation is not declared, these keys are searched for:

- a `ThesaurusKeyword` with `about = "pname__descr__ovr"` with matching language
- a `ThesaurusKeyword` with `about = "pname__descr"`
