========
MyHazard
========


* What is a report?

* Examples?


Integrate it with the GeoNode
------------------------------------

In "the same space" -- you get there from the tabs.

The probabilistic data needs to be available through the data browsing tab.


Country focus
-----------------

Country focus 

Will ultimately be about a continuous region.  Start with COS and NIC both in the view?  They are flexible.  We could have you choose a country when you go in.

Data layers will be different for each country.  



Functional status
---------------------

You can turn 'hazards' on or off.  
  - 4 or 5 different maps per hazard.
  
  * Landslide
  * Earthquake
  * Tsunami
  * Hurricane
    - hierarchical formatting (surge, rain, etc)
      
Would be nice for people to be able to see them.


Reporting
------------

Report will have: the maps, the data "binned" into a few categories.
 - sample from a small radius  (make sure this takes into account map zoom level)
 - normalization layer range things
 - get information about a point's administrative properties by looking it up in the vector data
 - format the data into tables
 - showing the maps

* Displaying of maps
  - how much / what extent
  - render image for appropriate layers

Administrative data provided
Where does this data come from? implies reading more layers?  It's vector data that they will provide.  

* one for all hazards


PDF
-----

Printer friendly HTML versus PDF?

Have to popup a separate window at the very least.  -- He doesn't care a lot about this as long as it works.

MUST be available as downloadable PDF.




Data
------

Going to get all new data layers for this, metadata, styled.  

Including metadata in the maps for the normalization.  

- new maps

- Important to have data integration as part of CAPRA
- special set of admin data for myHazard


==============
Safe Hospitals
==============

It's "exactly the same" as the MyHazard--but you click on a point and
get a Hazard report plus a HSI report.

He doesn't know how we actually get the HSI report.

"Points predefined" in vector layer


HSI report
----------

"A summary of the report and a link to the full report"  Prepended to the hazard report.

* screen scrape? Atom?
* separate in reporting UI


Editing
-------

They should have an editing interface.



Data
----

0. where does it come from


Users
=====

myHazard: infrastructure projects (water)
  - specific user

safe hospital: SHI (Paho)
  - gov officials, donors
  - awareness


Timeline
========

myHazard: sooner the better

safe hospital: looser



Todo
====

todo in sphinx

