.. configuration:

Basic Configuration of the Monitor Extension 
============================================

Many aspects of the monitor extension are configurable. All configuration files
are stored in the data directory under the ``monitoring`` directory::

  <data_directory>
      monitoring/
          db.properties
          filter.properties
          hibernate.properties
          monitor.properties

The function of these files will be discussed below.

.. _monitor_mode:

Monitor Mode
------------

The monitoring extension supports different "monitoring modes" that control how
request data is captured and stored. Currently three modes are supported:

  * **history** *(Default)* - Only historical request information is available. No live information is maintained.
  * **live** - Only information about live requests is maintained.
  * **mixed** - A combination of live and history. This mode is experimental.

The mode is set in the ``monitor.properties`` file.

.. note:: For the Virtual Machine GeoServer instance we are "live" mode.

History Mode
^^^^^^^^^^^^

History mode persists information about all requests in an external database. It
does not provide any real time information. This mode is appropriate in cases
where a user is most interested in analyzing request history over a given time
period.

Live Mode
^^^^^^^^^

Live mode only maintains short lived information about requests that are 
currently executing. It also maintains a small buffer of recent requests. No 
external database is used with this mode and no information is persisted for 
the long term.

This mode is most appropriate in cases where a user only cares about what a 
server is doing in real time and is not interested about request history.

Mixed Mode
^^^^^^^^^^

Mixed mode combines both live and history mode in that it maintains both real 
time information and persists all request data to the monitoring database. This
mode however is experimental and comes with more overhead than the other two 
modes. This is because mixed mode must perform numerous database transactions 
over the life cycle of a single request (in order to maintain live information), 
whereas history mode only has to perform a single database transaction for a 
request.

This mode is most appropriate when both real time request information and 
request history are desired. This mode is also most appropriate in a clustered
server environment in which a user is interested in viewing real time request
information about multiple nodes in a cluster.

Monitor Database 
----------------

By default monitored request data is stored in an embedded H2 database located
in the ``monitoring`` directory. This can be changed by editing the 
``db.properties`` file::

   # default configuration is for h2 
   driver=org.h2.Driver
   url=jdbc:h2:file:${GEOSERVER_DATA_DIR}/monitoring/monitoring

For example to store request data in an external PostgreSQL database::

   driver=org.postgresql.Driver 
   url=jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/monitoring
   username=bob
   password=foobar

.. warning:: The above is just an example. Does not match the training users and environment.   

Request Filters
---------------

By default not all requests are monitored. Those requests excluded include any web admin requests or any monitor HTTP API requests. These exclusions are configured in the ``filter.properties`` file:: 

   /rest/monitor/**
   /web
   /web/** 

These default filters can be changed or extended to filter more types of 
requests. For example to filter out all WFS requests::

   /wfs

How to determine the filter path
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The contents of ``filter.properties`` are a series of ant-style patterns that 
are applied to the *path* of the request. Consider the following request::

   http://localhost:8083/geoserver/wms?request=getcapabilities

The path of the above request is ``/wms``. In the following request::

   http://localhost:8083/geoserver/rest/workspaces/topp/datastores.xml

The path is ``/rest/workspaces/topp/datastores.xml``.

In general, the path used in filters is comprised of the portion of the URL
after ``/geoserver`` (including the preceding ``/``) and before the query string ``?``:: 

   http://<host>:<port>/geoserver/<path>?<queryString>

.. note::  For more information about ant-style pattern matching, see the `Apache Ant manual <http://ant.apache.org/manual/dirtasks.html>`_.
   
#. Go to the Map `Map Preview <http://localhost:8083/geoserver/web/?wicket:bookmarkablePage=:org.geoserver.web.demo.MapPreviewPage>`_ and open the `geosolutions:Counties` layer clicking on the ``OpenLayer`` link.

#. Perform a few times zoom the map.

#. Use also the GML preview for said layer

#. Navigate to the `Monitor/Reports section <http://localhost:8083/geoserver/web/?wicket:bookmarkablePage=:org.geoserver.monitor.web.ReportPage>`_ 

#. Click on ``OWS Request Summary`` to show a detailed chart like the following:

   .. figure:: img/monitor1.png
